Twitter has allegedly once again suspended the Libs of TikTok (LOTT) account for posting "hateful conduct."

Babylon Bee CEO Seth Dillon reported the new suspension on Wednesday from his personal Twitter account.

"BREAKING: Twitter has once again hit Libs of TikTok with a 7-day suspension for ‘hateful conduct.’ No specific tweets were flagged. We've since fired off another letter to Twitter (attached). They're on notice that we will sue them if they permanently suspend us," Dillon tweeted.

He added, "In anticipation of an extended legal fight with Twitter (we all know it's just a matter of time before the permanent ban), we've set up a legal defense fund. You can read more about it and find a link to donate in Chaya's [LOTT account owner] latest Substack post."

Twitter did not respond to Fox News Digital’s request for a comment.

The letter attached to Dillon’s tweet came from Envisage Law attorney James R. Lawrence III who warned about Twitter’s breach of contract with Sunday's suspension of LOTT.

"Remarkably, on numerous occasions, Twitter has confirmed to LOTT in writing that our client’s reporting did not violate Twitter’s Rules, including your company’s hateful conduct policy. As Twitter explained in a recent email to LOTT, your company ‘is required by German law to provide notice to users who are reported by people from Germany via the Network Enforcement Act reporting flow,’" Lawrence wrote.

He added, "Twitter’s apparent cognitive dissonance is not a matter of mere academic curiosity for LOTT. Twitter’s conclusions regarding LOTT’s previous tweets have legal consequences for your company. LOTT’s most recent reporting is not materially different from any of LOTT’s other, Twitter-cleared tweets. At the very least, Twitter’s prior investigations are relevant for purposes of a breach of contract claim. Twitter’s speech code has not changed and neither has the nature of our client’s reporting.

Further, Lawrence remarked that this behavior from Twitter is "not going unnoticed" by the public.

"Outside of perhaps the Gilded Age of a bygone era, rarely has a multi-billion dollar company’s words – claiming to be ‘the free speech wing of the free speech party’ while censoring journalism – so contradicted its actions. Many Americans are tired of listening to your company talk the talk of free expression while walking the walk of censorship. And LOTT is no exception. If Twitter refuses to live up to its own words and aspirations, and permanently bans our client’s account, LOTT will have no choice but to ask a court to order Twitter to live up to its own statements," Lawrence wrote.

The final tweet before Libs of TikTok’s apparent suspension spotlighted stripper performances in front of children at Chattanooga Pride Youth Day at Wanderlinger Brewing Co.

"This is literally a crime @FBI @ChattanoogaPD," the tweet read.

Twitter has suspended Libs of TikTok multiple times over the past year. In April, the account was suspended hours after previously being reinstated from a prior suspension.

In addition, Twitter has temporary locked Libs of TikTok out of its account for what it deemed to be "abuse and harassment" in June and for promoting "hateful conduct" in August. Twitter warned following repeated violations that the account could see a permanent ban in the future.