Take them to our leader.

NASA Administrator Bill Nelson says he doesn’t think we "are alone" after reading the US intelligence community’s recent report on unidentified aerial phenomena (UAP), adding that the launch of a new telescope later this year could find more planets potentially home to intelligent alien life.

An unclassified copy of the report was released to the public on Friday, which confirmed there have been more than 140 UAP sightings, with some lawmakers raising concerns that the objects could be controlled by foreign adversaries potentially posing a national security threat. 

Nelson, a former astronaut who previously served as Florida’s senior senator, told CNN on Monday that he has directed scientists to research potential explanations and report back to him. 

"Yes, I’ve seen the classified report. It says basically what we thought. We don’t know the answer to what those Navy pilots saw, they know that they saw something, they tracked it, they locked their radar onto it, they followed it, it would suddenly move quickly from one location to another," he said.

"And what the report does tell us that is public, is that there have been over 140 of these sightings. So naturally, what I ask our scientists to do is to see if there’s any kind of explanation, from a scientific point of view, and I’m awaiting their report," he said, adding that he spoke with Navy pilots following a briefing on the matter while he was still serving in the upper chamber of Congress. 

"… I talked to the Navy pilots, when we were briefed in the Senate Armed Services Committee, and my feeling is that there is clearly something there. It may not necessarily be an extraterrestrial, but if it is a technology that some of our adversaries have, then we better be concerned."

Nelson added that he doesn’t believe foreign adversaries have the ability to create the types of technologies that they are looking into, noting that both the government and the public are hoping to gain additional information. 

"We don’t think so [that it is an adversary], but when it comes to universe, remember the universe is so large, we have a program in NASA called the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence. But thus far, we don’t have any receipt communication from something that’s intelligent," he said. 

"People are hungry to know. And of course, ever since ‘Star Trek,’ you know people are yearning to find out what’s out there in the cosmos. Are we alone? Personally I don’t think we are. The universe is so big, it’s 13 and a half billion years ago is when the universe started. That’s pretty big. But people are hungry for this kind of information and we’re going to keep searching."

Nelson said the launch of the James Webb Space Telescope later this year will play a key role in their fact-finding mission.

"We are already finding examples of other planets around other suns, when we launch the James Webb telescope in November, it will appear back in time, almost to the beginning and additional information will find more planets," he said. 