Think Big Tech, and I bet Google comes to mind. They control our inboxes, calendars, document storage, cloud storage, routes, and more. Most of their products are free to use, which means you are the product they are selling. 

You have options. Tap or click here for my list of search engines that better protect your privacy. 

We put up with Google tracking because these services are free and incredibly easy to use. Hey, if you’re in Google’s ecosystem, you might as well get the most out of it. Here are five ways to do that. 

One of the best privacy features built right into Gmail is spam protection. I’m not talking about a junk folder. This tip is even better. 

You can create a new email address, called an alias, without any special set-up. All you have to do is add a plus sign and a word after your username to your email address, like this: "username+aliasname@gmail.com." 

A handy use is tying your recurring subscription services to one alias, like this: "username+subscriptions@gmail.com." You can use this trick for email newsletters, correspondence with friends, neighborhood association info, or anything else you can think up. 

Don’t share your email password with anyone. Period. But you can share an inbox with someone. In certain situations, it works really well.  

Say you run a small business and want multiple people to have access to the customer service email. Or maybe someone in your family is sick or just getting older and needs help managing their emails. They can share their inbox with you. 

To add a delegate: 

When you grant someone access to your Gmail account, they can sort emails with filters, archive emails, and use labels to organize emails. They can also send, read, and delete email messages. 

Like magic, a new calendar invite will pop up, ready for you to fill out. 

You can use any of the following shortcuts for each application: 

Google Docs: document.new, docs.new, doc.new 

Google Sheets: spreadsheet.new, sheets.new, sheet.new 

Google Slides: presentation.new, slides.new, slide.new 

Google Forms: forms.new, form.new 

Google Keep: keep.new, notes.new, note.new 

Google Calendar: meeting.new, cal.new 

Google Meeting: meet.new 

Google Maps makes it easy to get around, but you might not like the stark reality of seeing every single place you’ve been laid out on a map. Here’s how to check your location history: 

There’s nothing like settling in to do some work on the road, then realizing you don’t have internet. The good news is you can read, respond to, and search your Gmail inbox even when you don’t have an internet connection. 

My popular podcast is called "Kim Komando Today." It’s a solid 30 minutes of tech news, tips, and callers with tech questions like you from all over the country. Search for it wherever you get your podcasts. For your convenience, hit the link below for a recent episode. 

In this episode, Google updates Photos with redesigned Memories and a new collage editor, use your photos for a virtual clothing fit at Walmart, Keurig's new smart brewer makes a mind-blowing amount of coffee and how to get your real signature on digital docs. Plus, a rescue helicopter nearly abandoned a stranded man by mistaking his distress call. 

Find my podcast "Kim Komando Today" on Apple, Google Podcasts, Spotify or your favorite podcast player. 

Just search for my last name, "Komando." 

What digital lifestyle questions do you have? Call Kim’s national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station. 

You can listen to or watch The Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer. Or tap or click here for Kim’s free podcasts.

Copyright 2022, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment. All rights reserved. As an Amazon Associate, I earn a small commission from qualifying purchases. I only recommend products I believe in. 

Learn about all the latest technology on The Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show. Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks. 

For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.