I always say that what you post on the internet is forever.  

That’s why it’s crucial to protect your personal information. Think, for example, how bad it would be if a risqué photo you thought was safe on your computer ended up in the wrong hands. Tap or click for my best advice on storing sensitive personal pictures. 

Of course, many records you'll find online aren't quite so private. Tap or click for a trick to see what your home, or any other place, looked like years ago. It’s a fun walk down memory lane. 

Speaking of your home, your address is connected to your name all over the web — along with your age, cell phone or landline number, family members’ names, every address where you lived, and lots more. You should delete it, and I’ll show you how. 

People search sites make money by collecting and selling personal information. This repository can include your name, address, date of birth, gender, marital status, family members, social media profiles, education levels, property records, financial records, phone numbers, police records, employment information, and more. 

The sites scrape this information from local, state, and federal public records, along with court records, social media, online forums, and other sources. Some also purchase information from data brokers. 

Data brokers are loosely regulated at best, and there’s no law to prevent them from collecting and selling publicly available information. 

Anyone can search for information about you: A jealous ex to find out where you live or a scammer gathering information to fuel their nefarious deeds. The more people know about you, the more damage they can do. 

I started "Opt-Out" Tuesday on Komando.com after getting requests from readers asking how to remove their personal data from people search sites. The problem is that the removal steps are not always straightforward to find on these sites.  

Every Tuesday, I pick a people search site and tell you precisely how to remove your personal info. So that you never miss one of these sites, take action now.  

Tap or click here now to try out my free Tech Tips newsletter to get each Opt-Out Tuesday article straight to your inbox. 

Here are a few more tips before we get started. Don't pay to remove your information from any people search site. The site must provide this process for free. 

While removing your info from these sites, you must be careful which links you click. Buttons that look like part of the site may be ads that lead you to another site that requests payment.  

It can quickly get overwhelming trying to do all seven in one sitting. Do one a day for the next week. And then drop by my website for every "Opt-Out Tuesday." 

BeenVerified lets users search for property records as well as personal information. Here’s how to remove your data: 

Go to https://www.beenverified.com/app/optout/search. 

Open the email and click the link inside. This will bring you to a confirmation page. 

Expect it to take several days to weeks before your information vanishes. 

Now you can go on to remove your property data: 

Go to https://www.beenverified.com/app/optout/address-search. 

Open the email and click the link inside. This will bring you to a confirmation page. 

If the steps aren’t working, contact support@beenverified.com. 

For more in-depth instructions on BeenVerified, including screenshots for every step, tap or click here. 

Spokeo boasts a database of 12 billion records. Nearly 20 million people visit Spokeo.com each month. 

Follow these instructions to opt-out of Spokeo: 

Go to spokeo.com and enter your information to search for your profile. 

Go to spokeo.com/optout. 

Check your email for a message from Spokeo. Tap or click the link below this line: "To complete the removal process, please click this URL or paste it into your browser." 

You’ll be taken to a page with the message, "We’ve received your request to remove this listing." 

Give the site at least a week to process your removal request. 

If you need customer support, call Spokeo at 888-558-9004. Check out the contact page for more ways to get in touch. 

For more in-depth instructions on Spokeo, including screenshots, tap or click here. 

MyLife launched in 2008 after a merger between two other search sites: Reunion.com and Wink.com. The site boasts a Reputation Score feature, which assigns a number based on how you’re presented online to anyone who cares to look. 

Here’s how to remove yourself entirely from the site. 

Fill in the required starred information. 

You’ll have to go through quite a bit of narrowing down to get to a list of profiles that match yours. 

A message appears that states your request will be processed within 15 business days. 

If you need customer support, call 888-704-1900 or email membersupport@mylife.com. 

For more in-depth instructions on MyLife, including screenshots, tap or click here. 

Intelius is one of the more prominent data brokers on the web and owns several people search sites such as PeopleFinder, ZabaSearch, and US Search. 

Here's how to opt-out of Intelius: 

Go to intelius.com/opt-out/submit. 

You’ll be sent to a page informing you that an email confirmation was sent. 

You’ll be taken to a final confirmation page. 

Your information will be removed from the Intelius database within seven days. 

If you need help, contact customer support at 888-245-1655 or send a message to support@mailer.intelius.com. 

For more in-depth instructions on Intelius, including screenshots, tap or click here. 

StateRecords promises instant access to state, county, and municipal records. Removing your information from StateRecords is an easy process: 

Go to staterecords.org/optout. 

Check your email for a message from support@staterecords.org. 

You’ll be taken to a confirmation page.  

Wait a few days, search the site for your records, and repeat the process if necessary. 

If you have any issues, contact StateRecords at 855-938-5042. 

For more in-depth instructions on StateRecords, including screenshots, tap or click here. 

Instant Checkmate boasts more than 1.4 billion searches on its website. Checkmate, indeed. 

Here’s how to erase your information from Instant Checkmate. 

Go to instantcheckmate.com/opt-out. 

You’ll be taken to a confirmation screen, and you’re done. 

Your data should be removed in 48 hours. 

If you need help, contact customer support at 800-222-8985. 

For more in-depth instructions on Instant Checkmate, including screenshots, tap or click here. 

PeekYou advertises its services as a convenient way to find your friends and relatives. There are a couple of ways to remove your information from PeekYou: 

You’ll get a list of matches near the top of the page. Click on the match that applies to you. 

You’ll be taken to an opt-out form with the Unique ID for the profile you selected already filled in. 

You’ll get an email with a confirmation link. Click the link, and you’ll be taken to a confirmation page. 

Alternatively, you can go to PeekYou's homepage, scroll down to the bottom of the page, and select Do Not Sell My Personal Information. From here, you can enter your info and URLs linking to any matching profiles on the site. Use the above steps to complete your opt-out request. 

If you need to contact PeekYou, send an email to info@peekyou.com. 

For more in-depth instructions on PeekYou, including screenshots, tap or click here. 

My popular podcast is called "Kim Komando Today." It’s a solid 30 minutes of tech news, tips, and callers with tech questions like you from all over the country. Search for it wherever you get your podcasts. For your convenience, hit the link below for a recent episode. 

In this fun and informative episode, Samsung’s smartwatch is under fire for reportedly burning wearers, a popular password manager was hacked, and why you shouldn’t rely on Tile’s new QR code stickers to find your lost stuff. Plus, how to ask Google to remove your personal info from search results, turn an old PC into a media server, and see if Kim can fool a Komando listener in this week’s Brand New or Not True. 

Find my podcast "Kim Komando Today" on Apple, Google Podcasts, Spotify or your favorite podcast player. 

Just search for my last name, "Komando." 

What digital lifestyle questions do you have? Call Kim’s national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station. 

You can listen to or watch The Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer. Or tap or click here for Kim’s free podcasts.

Copyright 2022, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment. All rights reserved. As an Amazon Associate, I earn a small commission from qualifying purchases. I only recommend products I believe in. 

Learn about all the latest technology on The Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show. Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks. 

For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com