The convenience of GPS apps comes with a downside. Here’s how to see years of details everywhere you've used Google Maps. It’s a bit startling to see it all in one place. 

There are more private options. DuckDuckGo’s navigation service uses the framework of Apple Maps without all the tracking. Tap or click here to see how it works. 

Most of us will prefer to use the big hitters: Google, Apple, and Waze. Try these pro tricks to make them even more useful. 

When you navigate somewhere using Google Maps, location info is saved to your profile. If you want to go somewhere without seeing it pop up on your recent places, turn on Incognito mode. 

Why? Google Maps won’t keep your search history or update your location history to include this location. 

If you use Waze, your username and more may appear on a publicly available map. Friends can also see your name and photo. To stop that, you can go invisible: 

You want both hands on the wheel and your eyes on the road while driving. That can be tough when you’re trying to find your way. 

Use your voice instead. Try these commands, starting with "Hey Siri" or "OK, Google": 

"Get directions to (insert a location)." 

"Give me directions home." 

"Where am I?" 

"How long until I get there?" 

"Find a gas station." 

For more smart voice commands, check out this article: 7 best voice commands you can use on your iPhone or Android. 

It can be worth driving a few extra miles for cheaper fuel — but best know where you’re going, or you'll waste more gas. 

Search for the cheapest gas stations nearby using the Waze app. Note: Gas prices are crowdsourced, so they might not always be up to date.  

Here’s how it works: 

Your device will start looking around for the closest stations, with prices for each one. 

Want to see gas stations listed in order of price? Here’s how: 

Tap or click for more ways to find the cheapest gas prices near you. 

Here's something fun to do with Waze. Change the voice to be yours, the kids', or even my voice. You can find the steps to create and use custom voices here on my site. 

Here's one for iPhone users. Like the rest, Apple Maps remembers your searches if you want to revisit a place you looked up in the past. You may want to delete your history. Here's how to do it. 

Use an Android? Tap or click here for steps to remove your Google Maps history. 

When you’re running late, take a moment to let your family and friends know when you’ll be with them by sharing your route. 

To share your ETA in Google Maps: 

To share your ETA in Apple Maps: 

Say your friend's name so Siri can recognize the person in your contacts list. Your friend will get a notification that you're on the way. 

To share your ETA in Waze: 

You can use a messaging app, email, or tap More options to copy or save the link. 

Your recipient will get a link where they can view your drive and ETA. 

My popular podcast is called "Kim Komando Today." It’s a solid 30 minutes of tech news, tips, and callers with tech questions like you from all over the country. Search for it wherever you get your podcasts. For your convenience, hit the link below for a recent episode. 

Live in an area with crappy internet? Try this trick. Plus, MS Flight Simulator’s new version is amazing, Outlook users won’t like a major change, the biggest gotcha using private mode, and my smart digital life advice to callers just like you. 

Find my podcast "Kim Komando Today" on Apple, Google Podcasts, Spotify or your favorite podcast player. 

Just search for my last name, "Komando." 

What digital lifestyle questions do you have? Call Kim’s national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station. 

You can listen to or watch The Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer. Or tap or click here for Kim’s free podcasts.

Copyright 2022, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment. All rights reserved. As an Amazon Associate, I earn a small commission from qualifying purchases. I only recommend products I believe in. 

Learn about all the latest technology on The Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show. Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks. 

For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com