When it comes to consumer tech, there’s a huge list of things that can drive us all bananas. 

Take your slow Wi-Fi. You can’t stream, you can’t join a video meeting, and it always happens at the worst time. Tap or click for clever ways to speed up your home’s connection. 

What about wading through thousands of photos, looking for the one you want? Tap or click for a quick shortcut, along with four more smart tech fixes — like a hidden way to know a scammer is calling without picking up your phone. 

Our smartphones help us get a ton done, but that doesn’t mean we don’t want to chuck them out the window sometimes. Here are the top complaints I hear about and ways to fix them. 

Apple's Face ID does more than unlock your phone. It also can tell when you're paying attention to your phone. If you look away, your screen dims, and your alert volume also decreases. 

The fluctuating brightness can be frustrating. You can switch this feature off.  

On Android, adaptive brightness or auto-brightness uses a sensor to adjust the screen based on your environment. Sometimes it works well, but not always.  

Steps will vary based on your phone’s model, but here’s a starting point.  

When you're on a call, your iPhone monitors the noise around you and tries to cut it down, so the person you're talking to hears you better. It’s a neat feature, but it might lead to "Wait, what did you say?" too often. 

First, check your microphone volume. Press the volume up button on a call to adjust this. You can turn off the noise cancellation feature if people still have problems hearing you. 

Android phones are notorious for coming preloaded with apps you don’t want or need. These extraneous programs slow down your phone and consume storage space and battery life. 

There are a few ways to get rid of the bloat. 

Choose the apps you want to hide. 

Losing your texts is a nightmare. Don’t be that person. Here’s how to save text messages on iOS and Android before it’s too late. 

Group messages are a fantastic way to stay in touch with friends and family, but the constant pings can be too much. Here’s how to silence conversations on your iPhone: 

That’s a helpful option, but you’ll still get notifications if someone mentions you in a group text. You can turn this type of notification off, too.  

On Android, steps to hide conversation alerts will vary based on your phone’s model. Try this: 

The iPhone 8 was the last model with a home button. That was a long time ago, but I know change is hard, and you still might miss it. You can't install a physical home button on your phone, but there's a feature that lets you come close: 

Under Custom Actions, change Single-Tap, Double-Tap and Long Press settings. 

Now, whenever you tap that virtual button, you’ll be taken to your home screen. Neat! 

My popular podcast is called "Kim Komando Today." It’s a solid 30 minutes of tech news, tips, and callers with tech questions like you from all over the country. Search for it wherever you get your podcasts. For your convenience, hit the link below for a recent episode. 

In this episode, get a $10 manicure from a robot, change this secret Google Maps setting, and watch out for flying taxis. Plus, Amazon tests police stations as package pickup points, WFH jobs that pay $20/hour, and YouTube will let creators offer paid video courses next year. 

Find my podcast "Kim Komando Today" on Apple, Google Podcasts, Spotify or your favorite podcast player. 

Just search for my last name, "Komando." 

What digital lifestyle questions do you have? Call Kim’s national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station. 

You can listen to or watch The Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer. Or tap or click here for Kim’s free podcasts.

Copyright 2022, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment. All rights reserved. As an Amazon Associate, I earn a small commission from qualifying purchases. I only recommend products I believe in. 

Learn about all the latest technology on The Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show. Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks. 

For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com