A former Navy pilot says he witnessed UFOs flying in restricted airspace off the coast of Virginia nearly every day for two years beginning in 2019.

Former Lt. Ryan Graves told CBS’s "60 Minutes" that the unidentified objects — like ones seen in a Pentagon-confirmed Navy video near San Diego — are a security threat.

The latest firsthand account comes a month ahead of a report by the national intelligence director and secretary of defense on unidentified aerial phenomena, a measure that was including in a COVID-19 relief bill passed in December.

"I am worried, frankly. You know, if these were tactical jets from another country that were hanging out up there, it would be a massive issue," Graves said, according to a clip of the "60 Minutes" interview, which is set to air Sunday. "But because it looks slightly different, we’re not willing to actually look at the problem in the face. We’re happy to just ignore the fact that these are out there, watching us every day." 

Seamen who have seen the unidentified objects believe they could be a secret US technology, enemy surveillance devices, or something entirely different, Graves told CBS.

"This is a difficult one to explain. You have rotation, you have high altitudes. You have propulsion, right? I don’t know. I don’t know what it is, frankly," the lieutenant told correspondent Bill Whitaker as he watched an unclassified video.

"I would say, you know, the highest probability is it’s a threat observation program," Graves said, according to the report.

A former defense official who spent years investigating unidentified aerial phenomena told the network program that the vehicles have technology vastly exceeding any human invention.

"Imagine a technology that can do 600 to 700 G-forces, that can fly 13,000 miles an hour, that, that can evade radar and can fly through air and water and possibly space, and oh, by the way, has no obvious signs of propulsion, no wings, no control surfaces and yet still can defy the natural effects of Earth’s gravity.

"That’s precisely what we’re seeing," Luis Elizondo said.

This story first appeared in the New York Post.